# hs-projects
Portfolio of projects completed so far, focusing on Python and Java.

Snake Game: For this project, I emulated the popular game Snake where the user collects randomly placed apples and grows their snake as they do so. The user must avoid collisions with their snake’s body and the borders. The approach I took was to create a GUI frame with all the constants, variables, and instances I needed. Then, I created methods for each component of the game, such as movement, the apple’s random coordinates, and collision checkers. In these methods, I made use of different classes for their own methods, switches, if/else statements, and for loops. 

Python Basic 4-Function Calculator: In this project, I made a calculator that makes use of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. My approach was to define a function for the calculation as well as individual functions for the operations, all nested inside the calculation function. I implemented user input, allowing the user to enter numbers and their desired operation. I also incorporated if/else statements and a while loop for error handling, such as when a user tries to divide by 0. The calculator also runs continuously and asks the user if they want to continue making calculations before terminating when the user declines. For future enhancements, I plan to incorporate order of operations so the user can input multiple operations as well as add functionality and operations to make it similar to a scientific calculator. 

Java GUI Calculator: This project implements a GUI in Java to make a basic 4-function calculator. It allows the user to click numbers and operations and returns the output. Future enhancements include connecting the keyboard to the GUI so the user can type numbers in as well as expanding the operations allowed in the calculator. 
